Add Git command line usage docs (#1385)
spdx/license-list-XML: DOCS/git-usage.md

However, using Git via the command line can be more efficient, and can make it easier to test your license templates and edits before submitting a PR.

This document provides some guidance for setting up and using Git on your own system to contribute to the SPDX License List on GitHub. Suggestions and edits to this document are greatly welcomed!

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you've already done the following:

* set up a GitHub account
* forked the **upstream** repo (https://github.com/spdx/license-list-XML) into your own **personal** repo (e.g., https://github.com/swinslow/license-list-XML)
* your forked repo's master branch should currently be in-line with the upstream repo.
  * In other words, the upstream repo and your repo should both have the same "latest commit" ID: ![screenshot of commit ID in GitHub UI](/DOCS/images/git-usage-commit-id.png)
  * If the commit IDs are different, you can use the UI to fetch the differences from upstream into your repo: ![screenshot of fetch upstream option in GitHub UI](/DOCS/images/git-usage-fetch-upstream-ui.png)

> * opened a text terminal program
>   * Linux: if you aren't sure, look for a program called something like "Terminal", "xterm" or "gnome-terminal"
>   * MacOS: there is a built-in text terminal at /Applications/Utilities/Terminal
>   * Windows: _to be filled in by someone else with Windows terminal experience_
> * [installed Git](https://github.com/git-guides/install-git)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [installed Git](https://github.com/git-guides/install-git)
* opened a text terminal program
  * Linux: if you aren't sure, look for a program called something like "Terminal", "xterm" or "gnome-terminal"
  * MacOS: there is a built-in text terminal at /Applications/Utilities/Terminal
  * Windows: start the 'Git Bash' program, which you should be able to find in your Start Menu
```

For Windows, Git will need to have been installed beforehand so that Git Bash is available. One *could* use Command Prompt instead of Git Bash, but I don't think we'd want to inflict that upon anybody! :stuck_out_tongue:

Author: Great suggestion -- thanks, I didn't know how this worked on Windows  :)

* selected and installed a text editor
  * [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) is a common option.
  * [Vim](https://www.vim.org) or [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) if you're feeling adventurous...

> 

Reviewer 2: To run the make files, Java version 11 or higher is required.

Suggest adding the following:
* Install Java version 11 or higher.  See the [OpenJDK Installation Instructions](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openjdk/11) for details.  Note that there are other open source and commercial Java runtimes and development kits available.

Author: Thanks @goneall! I'm adding this.

6. The next step is to "**add**" the files, so that Git will start tracking them. The easiest way to do this is to specify "src" and "test" in the add command, which would add any new files that are found in the "src/" or "test/" directories:
  * **Add the files to be staged**: `git add src test`
7. Now the files are "staged", but confusingly they haven't yet been committed to the branch. If you type `git status` again it will tell you this: ~[screenshot from typing `git status` with added files](/DOCS/images/git-usage-git-status-added.png)
8. Next, you'll "commit" the changes, which actually inserts them into your local branch:
  * **Commit the files**: `git commit -s -m "Add XYZ license"`
  * ![screenshot from typing `git commit`](/DOCS/images/git-usage-git-commit.png)
  * In the commit command, the `-m` flag lets you add a one-line message to the commit. If you omit `-m` and the quoted message, it will take you to a text editor where you can type a longer message.

>   * The `-s` flag adds the DCO `Signed-off-by:` line to the commit message. If you're having issues when using this flag, let me know, there might be one other piece of setup needed for you to enable it.

Reviewer 3: With all respect to the DCO and it’s usability, do we really _need_ it here?

Does editing through the GitHub webUI actually Sign Off? If not, I’d keep the DCO as optional, not to overburden contributors.

Reviewer: We haven't really been using the DCO for this repository - I know @swinslow and @goneall have `Signed-off-by` lines in their commits here, but I imagine it isn't required for this repository, right?

Reviewer 2: Personally, I always sign-off my commits independent of any requirements.  As to requiring others to sign-off, I believe it is quite important for any code contributions (e.g. a fix to any of the scripts or utilities used in the license-list-XML repo), but not as important for license text submittals.  I'll leave it to others to decide if we want to require sign-offs for license related submittals.

Reviewer 3: I agree it’s a good thing™ and I really shout set my git config to do that automatically for me.

But if we want to keep these instructions as simple as possible for the less-technically-experienced, unless it is a hard requirement, I would leave it out. Especially if editing via GitHub’s WebUI does not sign off.

Perhaps move it lower as a suggestion instead for those who (want to) know how to do that.

Author: All good points, thanks for this.

Given that the license-list-XML repo doesn't currently require DCO sign-offs, I'm inclined to agree that the base instructions should not describe it as a required part of the flow. I'm removing it, and adding separate details to the bottom of the document in case folks choose to include it.

Whew.  :)  Congrats on getting through all of this!

## Running the license template checks locally

One of the real advantages of doing all of this is that it lets you run the license template checks locally, before you create the PR in step 10.

That way, if there are errors, you can fix them locally before creating the PR. If you are using the GitHub UI, you'd have to keep pushing new commits to re-run the tests without knowing whether they will pass.

To run the license template checks on your local system, after creating the license template and test text files in step 4 above, run either one of the following commands:

* **Test all licenses**: `make validate-canonical-match`
  * note that this checks _all_ licenses and exceptions, so this will take a while to run!
* **Test a single license**: `./test-one-license xyz`
  * note that the dot-slash (`./`) are necessary here, and that `xyz` should be replaced with the ID of the single license that you want to test

**FIXME: to confirm whether more details are needed to install Java, make, etc. so the checker tools can run**

> 

Reviewer 2: I believe only Java version 11 or higher is required
